if you have any questions you can type
them into the chat I'm happy to answer
them I've actually taken the IELTS and
for your interest I'm taking the IELTS
again next week
why because I didn't get a 9 in writing
and I want to get a 9 in writing I want
to see if it's actually possible to get
a 9 because I've never I don't know
anyone ever who has got a 9
IELTS writing and I just want to prove
that is actually possible make sure my
slides and then we'll get started
cool
um all right let me just get that all
straightened out cool and let me record
this welcome to this live + by e2
language my name is Jay I'm one of the
expert IELTS teachers I've actually
taken the IELTS and so and I did and I
got a 9 is speaking which is
unsurprising because I'm a native
speaker but I thought it was very
difficult and I thought particularly
part 2 of IELTS speaking was extremely
difficult speaking about a single topic
for two minutes well anyway what I'm
going to teach you in this lesson is a
strategy for how to do part 2
effectively easily and it also has the
hidden benefit of increasing your scores
well I think probably enormous ly let's
have a look so as you know part one is
small talk part two you have to tell a
great story we're going to look at that
one in part three you discuss big ideas
so let's have a think about this part to
tell a great story this is when the
examiner hands you the task card gives
you one minute to prepare and two
minutes to speak about this boring task
card
it's really tough task card one of them
preparation two minutes to talk common
topics will include things like
festivals or museums of travel or a
child friend port and person object food
music movie relative home or school
quite mundane topics quite not boring
but just
it's difficult to generate ideas and to
speak for two minutes on one of these
topics 30 seconds fine
two minutes difficult let's look at an
example task art for example the task
card might say talk about a present you
received you should say who gave it to
you what it was what it was what it
looked like I can explain whether or not
you liked it this is what you should not
do ready in three two one
today I would like to talk about a
present I received from my father my
father gave it to me it was a wallet it
looks like a wallet it was brown I liked
it okay so I just spoke for about 10
seconds and so now I've got one minute
and 50 seconds left so usually what I
would do is go back and say my father
gave me the bollocks
my father's name is Bob it looked like a
wallet but Brown you're going to get
like an IELTS coup for that effort so we
need a strategy because it's extremely
hot extremely hard to speak for two
minute on that boring topic the strategy
is this we call it PPF what that means
is past present and future so what I'm
going to do instead of just telling one
story about a present I received I'm
going to tell three stories I'm going to
tell a past story present future present
story and a future story all based on
this each story will go for about 30 to
40 seconds and each story will go
through these points is that allowed am
I allowed to do that yes there's nothing
in the criteria that say that you have
to only speak about a past story in fact
there's nothing in the criteria that say
you have to speak about the task card
the criteria I'll show you in a second
do not assess verb tenses in other words
so let's look at a past story present
than a future
so here's a past story I'm gonna read
this past story to you then we're going
to look at the verbs that I use so here
it is present I received when I was
young I used to receive a lot of
presents from my grandmother she was
extremely generous although she had six
children
she was always excellent at giving
presents to each of us that meant a lot
to us while she would always give us
gifts on our birthdays and at Christmas
she would although sometimes just
surprised us I used to visit her a lot
when I was a kid she lived in the city
and our family lived in the countryside
going shopping for gifts was always so
exciting one particular gift she gave me
was a cricket bat it was an expensive
one that was made of English willow and
I loved it
it had very bright stickers on it I used
to take it to school
and all the other boys were jealous of
it that's forty-five seconds and that is
a significant story there's a lot there
and it's only 45 seconds now
interestingly the verbs of my past story
are important was used to receive was
had what meant would always give would
always surprise used to visit lived
lived was gave was loved had used to
were so my first story my first past
story went for 45 seconds and used a lot
of past tense verbs fine but I've still
got one minute and 15 seconds left what
am I going to do am I going to go back
to the start and tell the same story
again no what I'm gonna do is tell a
present story more recently my
girlfriend gives me presents all the
time she is also extremely generous most
recently she gave me a black jacket I
love it
it's trendy and modern and really warm
in winter I also give her lots of
presents although I'm not as good at
choosing gifts as she is she has taught
me a lot about gift-giving and how
important it is
I guess I've learned recently the gifts
especially in a romantic relationship
are really important maybe more
important for women than men she really
likes it when I give her gifts they
don't have to be expensive
but something like a flower or a block
of chocolate makes her really happy but
yeah the jacket she gave me is something
that I real treasure
so what present verbs did I use gives
not gave gives is not was is I've used
the past tense verb here that's fine I
love it it is give I am ears has taught
I've learned is are likes give don't
have to be makes give is treasure cool
so I told my past tense story for 45
seconds never told a completely
different story with a different person
and a different gift now I move on and
I've got 30 seconds left so I'm going to
tell a future story now I'm going to use
Future turn future tense verbs and modal
verbs by this stage the examiner is
looking at me thinking wow this guy is
good why because all of my verbs of
changing from the past to the present
and now they're going to change to the
future and so first of all grammar score
is going to increase vocabulary score
will increase the task response criteria
which I will show you in a second will
increase let's have a look in the future
I would I'd like to receive a gift from
My Father
he owns a nice old motorbike and I'm
hoping that one day he'll give it to me
I'd love to ride around on that
motorbike it's black and it's powerful
and it looks awesome I guess I'll have
to wait for that motorbike though as my
dad adores it so he won't give it to me
easily I might have to wait until he is
too old to ruin it then I might ask him
politely whether he can give it to me
I'd love to ride around the countryside
on that old motorbike thirty Seconds
let's look at the verbs
I would here's a present one that's fine
he owns I'm hoping he will give I would
love it is it is looks I will have to
wait adores he won't give will not give
might have to wait might ask can give I
would love
I've told three stories now and I've hit
two minutes and my performance has been
interesting my language has been complex
and to be honest it's just much much
easier to tell three stories then tell
one story this one for thirty to forty
seconds the past story thirty to forty
seconds the present story thirty to
forty seconds and I might have time at
the end to tell a future story it
depends usually it'll be a shorter story
about twenty to thirty seconds but it
says a present you received past tense
hmm
these these are the criteria that the
IELTS used to assess your speaking and
there is nothing said about following
the task hard you get scored on fluency
and coherence fluency means your ability
to speak without hesitating and it meant
and the other coherence means you doubt
develop your topics fully and
appropriately perfect that's fine
lexical resource means your vocabulary
use well we've used a lot of different
verbs grammatical rant and we've told
three different stories which makes it
easier to you different vocabulary
grammatical range and accuracy we would
definitely get a high score for that
because all of our verb changes and
modal verbs and everything that happens
they're the only one that you really
need to worry about that doesn't that I
can't help you with with this strategy
is pronunciation you have to think about
that so yes this strategy does work for
I don't speaking and that's how you get
an eye all right now enough talking from
me I want you to try I want you to talk
about a person you recently met you
should say where you met them what they
look like what their personality was
like and explain whether or not you like
them talk about someone you met talk
about someone
you have been meeting recently okay
someone at work every day I meet with my
boss my boss is blah blah blah and then
tell a future story one day I would like
to meet the Queen she would be very
interesting tell three stories I'll give
you one minute preparation in the one
minute preparation all you need to do is
think about who you will tell the past
story about who you will tell the
present story about and who you will
tell the future story about then you
just need to go through these tell three
stories your one minutes preparation
time starts now
[Music]
thirty Seconds preparation left tell
your three stories starting now
[Music]
30 seconds it's 1 minutes 1 minute left
30 seconds left you might want to tell a
future story
three two one and stop how did you go
just type into the chat
whether that worked or not how did you
tell to tell three stories were you able
to tell three stories maybe people are
still talking okay all right let's move
on let's try it again
ah again I want you to split your talk
up into three parts
tell a past story so you're going to use
past tense verbs then the present story
isn't interesting let's look at this one
again so with this one I could talk
about a friend I used to know her okay
so I met my friend in primary school
he was short and had long hair he was a
courageous and adventurous guy he was
really funny so I'm using past tense to
describe this guy now I'm going to move
to the present story and I'll talk about
everyday I meet with my colleague at
work Colin and we discuss politics and
we discuss history and we discuss all
these interesting subjects he is
interesting I like him I'm using present
tense verbs then I'm going to tell a
future story and I'd say in the future I
would like to meet with Ben Affleck
because he plays Batman and Batman would
be cool whatever it doesn't matter just
tell these stories and change your verbs
let's try it again
PPF past present future I'm going to
give you one minute to prepare here's
your task card I'm going to tell you
every 30 seconds when 30 seconds is up
your preparation time starts now
good Benny that's looking good well done
30-second preparation left tell your
past story in three two one start
tell your present story
good and tell a future story 20 seconds
left
okie dokie
how did you go did it help telling the
three different stories because it's
definitely it would be difficult to
speak for two minutes about one movie
crazy really hard but if you split it up
makes it much easier so for me past
story I would talk about I don't know I
would talk about my favorite movie when
I was a kid right was Gulliver's Travels
so I could talk about Gulliver's Travels
it was a it's it it Gulliver's Travels
what's my favorite movie it's an
adventure movie it showed how Gulliver
got stuck on an island with the
Lilliputians and the big Enders it would
appeal to children I liked it because it
was fantastic and the characters were in
were interesting there's my pass verbs
present story well I haven't watched a
movie for a long time so I would talk
about a TV show I am watching called
house of cards recently I have been
watching a TV show and again it's off
topic it's not a movie it's a TV show
but that's okay it's fine I do not need
to follow this exactly at the moment I
am or have been watching a TV show
called house of cards it is interesting
it is set in Washington in America it is
about politics
it shows how one man can become the US
president blah blah blah future story in
the future I would like to see the new
Stephen King it
film it will be a remake of the old film
bla bla bla and I use future tense verbs
for that story as well so it takes
practice to do this it takes practice
and I think it also takes feedback in
order to get really good at this
strategy but this strategy will help you
if you need feedback if you need help
Suntory to language comm if you're a
non-member if you're free member think
about upgrading so you can get feedback
on your speaking submissions but right
now let's just go to QA if you have any
questions feel free to type them into
the chat suresh how long will I account
be active for suresh your account will
be active until you pass your test
that's our policy here cool Vinnie wants
to meet with Henrique she's a big fan of
him I find his voice melodious fair
enough
cool any questions about IELTS speaking
or I might leave you to it Shaquille has
got a test in one hour
good luck alright no questions I might
leave it there
okay no problem so Jess on YouTube it
will require practice cool alright I'll
leave you to it
please check Q&A hello today and receive
time to beanie please check your email
and please check your spam just in case
it went to the spam if you haven't
received it please email hello at e2
language calm cool guys I'll see you
soon thanks for coming along